DADDY JOE’S FIDDLE




CHAPTER I.


A tall clock in the hall was striking eleven. A tired, but very
wide-awake, little girl was climbing the stairs. “Land sakes, child!
Hear that? Go straight to sleep now. It’s wicked for grown folks to be
up this time of night, say nothing of young ’uns.”

The child made no reply. She had nothing to say. Older people than Chee
have _learned_ to be silent; in her case, lessons had been unnecessary.
Softly closing her chamber door, Chee blew out the little flame that
had lighted her way up the creaking stairs. Instead of going _straight
to sleep_, she sat down by the open window and began to unbraid her
long, stiff hair. Impatiently she stopped, and clenched her brown
hands. Her cheeks burned as she broke out in bitter whispers, “Oh, the
music! The music! And Aunt Mean called it wicked. It wasn’t wicked. It
was lovely. It made me want to fly right up to heaven. Guess things
that make you feel that way aren’t wicked. She couldn’t have heard it
much,” continued the child, excitedly. “She was watching the people
in front of us, and ’zaminin’ their clothes. Told Uncle Reuben how
many different kinds of stuffs were on Mrs. Snow’s bonnet; and that
beautiful, beautiful song going on all the while. It wasn’t wicked! The
choir at church isn’t wicked, and this is fifty times nicer. ’Sides--”
Her hands dropped limply to her lap. Her eyes lifted from their watch
down the road which lay white and smooth in the moonlight, the shadows
of the trees crouching dark on either side. Gazing up at the stars she
continued, tenderly, “My Daddy Joe made music on one. He called it his
‘dear old fiddle,’ he loved it so. No, it can’t be wicked.”

With the thought of Daddy Joe came a new grievance. “And I just won’t
let any one hurt it, either, I won’t. I love it, too. If Aunt Mean
knew, she’d call me wicked, but she sha’n’t know--ever. I’ll make out
I didn’t like the concert, so she can’t guess. No, I won’t, either, I
suppose that ’ud be a lie. I just won’t say anything ’tall about it,
’cause I did like it. Oh, how I liked it, though! Still, I most wish
there had been some one for me to stay with, so’s I couldn’t have gone,
’cause now I’ll wish and wish for always to hear some more.

“I wouldn’t mind so much about the girl in a white dress that sang
those songs, or the man who played on the black organ, somethin’ like
the one at Sunday school, only blacker and sweeter--it’s the fiddle I
mind. It sounded like the river when it rubs against the little stones
and tumbles over the rocks; and pretty soon it seemed just like the
stream by the mill-dam, so big and strong-like, with it’s mind all made
up. And then, by and by, it whispered. I wanted to cry then,--it was
funny when I liked it so, too,--it whispered ever and ever so low, like
the leaves talk together just before the rain falls, almost just like a
violet smell could be if it made any noise.”

The moon was rising above the trees. The beauty of the mill-stream
music was forgotten for the murmuring leaf sounds. A softer mood stole
over her heart, stilling its turmoil.

Chee laid her head against the window-frame. Lower and lower it
drooped, until it rested on the sill. The moon had disappeared when she
awoke. The road was swallowed up in blackness. The room was so dark she
could not see her little bed. She felt around, found it, and crept in.
Still, sweet, far-off strains echoed through her dreams, bringing a
smile--half-rapt, half-yearning.




CHAPTER II.


It was scarcely daylight. A small white figure was picking its
way, barefooted, across the dusty attic floor. It paused beside an
old-fashioned, hair-covered trunk. Chee’s waking thought had been of
the wonderful concert. Led by some unconscious motive, she had sought
the loft for a sight of Daddy Joe’s fiddle. Raising the lid of the
trunk, she slowly drew forth one article after another,--a scarlet
shawl with little glistening beads fastened in its fringe, a pair of
moccasins, a heavy Indian blanket wrought in gay colors, a silken
scarf. She thoughtfully stroked the rich goods of the scarf and slipped
her feet into the moccasins. “My mamma’s feet were most’s little’s
mine,” she said, in the customary whisper of her reveries.

Spying a small box, she pulled it out and opened it. Across its cover
was printed in large, uneven letters, “Mamma’s Playthings.” Lovingly
she took in her arms a much worn corn-cob dolly; only a few streaks
of paint were left for its face, only a few wisps of hair for its wig.
She handled some little acorn cups and saucers as though they had been
the frailest of china. Then, with a sigh, she remembered what had
brought her to the attic, and laid aside several rudely moulded figures
of clay. The trunk was almost emptied of its contents before she drew
forth a battered violin case, opened it, and with reverent hands lifted
out Daddy Joe’s fiddle. The bridge had slipped; instinctively she
straightened it. “My Daddy Joe’s own dear fiddle.” Closing her eyes,
she tried to remember how he had looked with the violin under his chin.
Perhaps, after all, imagination as well as memory painted the picture
before her,--her father’s tall, straight form as he drew the bow across
the strings; a fainter vision of the gaily blanketed woman by his side.

“And I was there, too,” she murmured, dreamily fingering a string of
Indians beads that hung around her neck. For some reason Aunt Mean has
never taken these away from her. With a fold of her night-robe she
began to polish the instrument. In doing so she disturbed one of its
yellow strings. A low, trembling note vibrated through the loft. Chee’s
face glowed. She would make music for herself. Why had she not thought
of that before? In her delight, the child put both her arms around the
old violin and passionately hugged it.

Taking the bow from its place, she said, “I’ll find the way they do it.
I’ll begin this very night. Nobody shall hear it, ’cause they’re way
downstairs. ’Sides, they’ll be asleep.”

Chee trembled with excitement. “I’ll hide it where I can find it in the
dark,” she continued, stealthily, “so Aunt Mean’ll never know. She’d
most kill me if she found out. I wonder why her mother named her such a
name. Maybe she guessed what she’d be like when she got old, like the
squaws used to long ago, or maybe it only just happened to fit her.”
With these meditations she carefully hid the old violin box behind a
chest.

Miss Almeana Whittaker, the while, was placidly untying her nightcap.
(Nightcaps were still useful to Miss Almeana.) She was not in the
least suspicious that her heathen niece, as she chose to call her,
was awake at this early hour. She often told her brother that children
kicked against going to bed at night, and might just as well kick about
getting up in the morning. To Chee, she would say, “Go to bed so’s to
get up.”

“Chee! Chee!” came from the stairway.

“Yes, Aunt, I’m awake.”

“What’s struck her to wake this early?” she asked, but that was the
last she thought of it.




CHAPTER III.


Oh, the excitement of the days that followed that memorable concert!
The pleasure, to Chee, of a secret all her own! The attempts and
failures to _make music_! She was not even familiar with the beginnings
of melody; if she had heard of a scale, she did not known its meaning.
So, for awhile, she tried with her little, trembling fingers, to draw
tones from the old, loosened strings.

After repeated trials and no music, she grew discouraged; even her
untrained ear found something very, very wrong. “It’s the fiddle,” she
concluded, “it’s too old. It won’t work. If I only had a new one now,
brandy-new from the store, I know I could do it. I hear lots of songs
in my head, but I can’t hear them in the fiddle.” However, the idea
that the violin was too old was soon corrected.

One Sunday morning Chee sat in church, thinking there must be baby
birds just outside a window near. The songs the old birds were singing
made her think so. It had been a bright day, but for a moment the sky
was clouded.

“What a terrible big bird Culloo[1] must be to hide the whole sun!
There, he’s gone now. I do hope he will stay away.” Chee shuddered a
little. Aunt Mean frowned at her from the end of the pew. She could not
understand her niece’s fanciful, almost superstitious ideas. It was not
strange that so sensitive a nature as Chee’s, of which the fantastic
beliefs of her mother’s race were a prominent part, could have little
in common with the blunt, doctrinal mind of Aunt Mean.

All the little sounds of the outdoor world had each a separate
individuality for Chee. The tall, stiff poplars in the churchyard,
mingling their metallic rustle with the dainty murmur of the willows,
caused Aunt Mean to think, “I guess it’s going to blow up a storm, the
trees air a-rattling.”

“The poplars are singing with the willows,” thought Chee. “Their voices
sound together just like little Sadie’s and her grandpa’s when they
stand up to sing.” Sadie was a dear, wee tot of a girl, with soft,
flying hair. She sat in the pew ahead of Miss Almeana. Her grandpa was
a tall, stiff-jointed old gentleman. He wore a very long, shiny coat,
and, no matter how warm the day, there was a turkey-red scarf around
his neck. His eyes were small, and glinted like steel. His nose was
thin and straight, and his face always pale. When he left his pew he
immediately put on a high silk hat. Nor did he consider himself in
church until he had reached his old-fashioned seat and closed its door.

Chee did not like the grandpa very well, he made her feel chilly,
she said; but often she longed to change her own stiff, jetty hair
for Sadie’s fuzzy curls. Her thoughts of the birds and the trees and
Sadie’s curls were suddenly checked by Mr. Green, the minister, who was
saying, “It is something like a violin--the older it grows, and the
oftener it is used, the more valuable it becomes.”

Chee instantly straightened herself in her seat. “Did he mean the older
it is the better it plays? How could he? How funny! Other things wear
out, why don’t fiddles? Guess he must be mistaken, ’cause ’less Daddy
Joe’s is too old, what can be the trouble? Wouldn’t the minister think
I was wicked, though, if he knew I loved it like I do? I s’pose ’course
he would, ’cause he’s Aunt Mean’s minister.”

That Aunt Mean could have a minister who did not think just as she,
never occurred to Chee.

“But if I could only make him promise not to tell, he couldn’t--ever,
’cause he’s a minister.”

A few evenings longer she struggled on. The same discordant tones were
the only result. One night the horrible sounds were more than she could
bear. With a shiver, she put away the naughty fiddle. Baffled and
broken-hearted, she crept down to her room. “What shall I do? Oh, what
shall I do?”

Worn out, she threw herself on the floor, and did something very
unusual for Chee--she began to cry. “Nobody can help me. I’m all ’lone.
Nobody’s here ’cept Our Father, I s’pose He’s here, ’cause He’s always
everywhere; but I don’t feel Him very much anywhere. Any way, He
wouldn’t make music for me. He used to for Musmi and his friends, but
perhaps He isn’t so fond of music as He used to be when they lived.”

The thought of heavenly music fascinated her. “I wish I was an angel,
I do. I’d dare ask Him then, any way. He used to do such things for
people in the stories Daddy told me. But Mr. Green only says He can
make us good and such things. I wonder,” she said, slowly, trying to
grasp a new idea, “I wonder if He couldn’t make Mr. Green think the
fiddle isn’t wicked. If He could only do that so I knew Mr. Green
wouldn’t tell Aunt Mean, I could ask him about old fiddles being as
good as new.”

She still lay on the floor. Looking up at the faintly blinking stars,
she murmured, “I don’t believe it would be wrong to ask Our Father to
try, ’cause Our Father and I know the fiddle isn’t wicked, even if Aunt
Mean and the minister don’t. I am going to ask Him, any way, this very
night.”

This resolution seemed to comfort her. Beginning to undress, she tried
to think out a prayer. Poor little Chee! She did not realize that as
she had been lying on the floor, looking up at the stars, her heart
had offered its petition. So she kept on framing a prayer that had
already been heard.

At last, kneeling by her bed, she said over the carefully chosen words,
“Our Father, who art in heaven and everywhere, I love Daddy Joe’s
fiddle very much. Better even than the real china tea-set that Cousin
Gertrude sent me, or my string of beads. But I can’t make music on it,
I’m afraid it’s too old. Mr. Green said it couldn’t be, but I’m afraid
I didn’t understand him right. I want to ask him. Can’t Thou make him
not call me wicked, nor Daddy Joe, nor ever tell Aunt Mean, ’cause
Thou knows how mad she’d be.” Chee paused. This was the prayer she had
planned, but something seemed lacking. After a moment she added, “And
if Thou do, I’ll do something for Thee sometime, only I can’t think of
anything now. Thy kingdom come. And finally save us. Amen.”




CHAPTER IV.


Next day Chee plucked up courage and said, “Aunt Mean, please may I
pick a bunch of white peonies and carry’em down to Mrs. Green?” Aunt
Mean was straightening the rag-carpet rugs on the kitchen floor. “Take
hold the end of this mat, Chee. Well, I don’t know, seems like you
wanted to be on the go the hull time. Only last week you rode over to
the ‘Corners’ with your uncle, and ’tain’t a month since you was took
to a reg’ler concert--in the town hall, too. But I don’t know but you
might as well go, an’ stop on the way an’ ask Mis’ Snow for that apern
pat’en she said she’d just’s liev I took.”

“Yes’um,” and Chee bounded away to gather her flowers.

“Beats all, that child does, still’s a mouse inside, wild’s a deer the
minute she’s out.” This had been spoken to a neighbor who had “jest
dropped in a minute.”

“Well, I s’pose it’s her Injun blood, isn’t it?” was the reply. “What a
worry she must be to you, Miss Almeana. She’s well brung up, though, if
she is half savage, I will say that.”

“Poor Joe’s runnin’ off an’ marryin’ was a dretful thing,” stated Aunt
Mean, “dretful for him, and dretful for us.”

“No doubt she was purty, and I s’pose findin’ she’d lived so long with
a white family made some difference,” the neighbor remarked. There was
a shadow of romance about her nature; there was not even that about
Aunt Mean’s.

“It was better’n though he’d found her naked in a wigwam, but ’twas bad
’nough,” dryly returned poor Joe’s sister.

“Prob’ly the greatest attraction was her voice. It must have been purty
hard on so good Meth’dist people as you an’ Reuben be, to have one of
your own kin go roun’ fiddlin’ fer shows with an Injun singin’ woman
fer his wife.”

Miss Almeana did not consider it proper to tell what an affliction this
had been to her, but with a clear conscience she told, for at least
the fiftieth time, how Reuben “took on.” After that came poor brother
Joe’s taking on; how, when his wife died, he left his profession to
wander about the world, clinging to his baby girl for comfort in his
loneliness; how, at last, he came back to the old homestead, sick--body
and heart. “He only lived a couple o’ years longer, and most o’ that
time he set round with the young’n in his arms,” went on Aunt Mean.

The neighbor had heard it all before, but she was interested.

“Reuben thinks that more’n half what killed him was heartbroke’ness.
Mebbe it was. He was allers kinder soft like, and that old fiddle of
his’n only made him wuss. I used to hate the sight on it. Think of the
waste o’ money! Sold his whole half the farm to buy it--meadow lot and
all. I tell you what, I chucked that thing out o’ sight mighty sudden
after he died.”

“Did you burn it,” asked her listener, in an awed voice, “after he had
loved it so?” Aunt Mean quailed a little.

“Laws! no, Mis’ Bowman, I ain’t quite so Spartan as that. I didn’t
have courage. But I stuck it up attic for good and all. It never’ll
come down as long as I keep house here, either.”

“Well, I must say, Miss Almeana,” interrupted her acquaintance, anxious
to appease the old lady, “you don’t work the child very hard. What does
she do, anyhow?”

“She? Oh, what I tell her to. It’s easier to do most everything
yourself than be botherin’ round with children. She’s coming on nine,
though, and I don’t want it on my conscience that I didn’t do my duty
by her--if she is a heathen--so I s’pose it’s about time I broke her
in.”

Perhaps a very faint vision of what Chee’s _breaking in_ might mean,
rose before the neighbor’s mental sight, for she said, in relenting
tones, “Oh, well, I don’t see’s you’ve any cause to hurry. She’s right
smart and will learn mighty fast when she once starts in.”

“Humph!” said Aunt Mean, and Mrs. Bowman never quite made up her mind
whether she had helped Chee’s cause or not.

While the housewives gossipped, the little girl was wending her way
to the clergyman’s house. She did not walk very fast. It was warm
and dusty, and she was busily thinking. After all, she was somewhat
loath to reach her destination. At last she came to the small, white
parsonage. Her heart seemed to pound as loudly as her hand as she
knocked upon the door. The minister’s wife herself answered the knock.

“Aunt Mean sent you these.”

“Why, thank you, Chee, thank you. And such a hot day, too. Would you
like a drink of water?” Instead of water, the lady brought a glass of
milk from the cellar. Chee sipped it slowly. It was delicious after the
long, hot walk, but she felt anxious over her errand.

“I hope he won’t think I’ve workings of a spirit like Deacon Herring
had,” she thought, a little fearfully.

After Mrs. Green had asked for her uncle and aunt, if they had green
corn yet, and if Miss Almeana’s currant-bushes would be heavy that
year, conversation flagged. Chee still sat on the edge of her chair as
though waiting for something to happen.

“What can ail the child?” wondered Mrs. Green. Finally she ventured to
ask Chee if she had come on any special errand.

“No-o, not ’zactly an errand, but--but,” she hesitated, slowly twisting
around her fingers the hem of her short gingham skirt. “Could--please
do you care if I see the minister a minute?”

Her hostess laughed. “Care? Why, no, child. I don’t keep him put away
in the dark.”

Chee’s black eyes looked frightened. “Oh, Mrs. Green!” she said,
“I didn’t mean it that way.” Dropping her voice to a whisper, she
entreated, “Don’t say anything to Aunt Mean. Please don’t tell.”

The lady’s kind heart was touched. She loved little children. Quickly
stooping to kiss Chee’s flushed forehead, she answered, “Tell that you
asked to see the minister? No, indeed.”

“Thank you.” Chee had forgotten for a moment her usual reserve, and
stealing her arms around Mrs. Green’s neck, she softly kissed her. This
was the first voluntary act of affection the child had shown toward any
one since her father’s death.

Though the minister’s wife only remarked in a gentle voice, “I think my
husband is up in the hay-mow--there is a nice breeze by the door,” she
was ever after, to Chee, the ideal of a mother hardly remembered.

While leading her to the barn, the lady asked, “Do you mind going up by
yourself?”

“Oh, no, no,” answered the little girl. It would be easier to confront
the minister alone.

Chee found him lying on the hay with a book over his eyes. She
furtively peeped at him several times from the top of the ladder.
Finally she concluded he was not asleep.

“Mr. Green,” she called. Her voice was not high and clear like most
children’s; it was strangely deep and rich. “Mr. Green,” she repeated.

He looked over his book, exclaiming, “Why, child, how you startled me!”
Then in a gentler voice he added, “What brought you here, Little One?”

The pet name helped to ease her fluttering heart. She stepped nearer
and quietly studied his face a minute.

“Can you keep a secret?” she asked, still watching him closely.

He was amused with his little visitor and replied, “For how long?”

“Forever,” came the instant, firm reply.

Something in the child’s earnest face at once sobered the minister.

“That depends, Miss Chee,” he answered.

Chee seated herself beside him on the hay. She had forgotten to be
afraid.

“Mr. Green,”--the bead-like eyes enlarged, and seemed to soften as she
spoke,--“you are a minister, and if you once promise you can’t break
your word--ever, can you?”

“Not and be a true minister, I suppose.”

“Then won’t you promise?”

“I guess so.”

“This is a ’portant matter. ‘Guess so’ won’t do. Say ‘yes,’ please.”

“Well, yes, then, little lawyer.” Though just what he was promising
was not clear to him, it brought a thoughtful, satisfied expression to
Chee’s face as, looking down, she sat absently crumpling hay.

[Illustration: “‘THIS IS A ’PORTANT MATTER. “GUESS SO” WON’T DO. SAY
“YES,” PLEASE’”]

“And what about the secret?” asked the clergyman, after some moments of
silence.

She looked up quickly. She had been busy pondering how far she should
explain matters, and had half forgotten his presence.

“Why, you know, you said old ones were lots better than new ones, but I
am afraid you were mistaken, for Daddy Joe’s is very, very bad.”

“What are you talking about, child?”

“Why, you said it your very own self, you did.” Here was a new
difficulty. “A minister can’t back out of what he said. And you said
it, sir. Don’t you remember that Sunday you preached that old ones were
better than the new ones? Please think hard.”

“Old what?”

“Why, old fiddles. You said so.”

“Oh, well, suppose I did. It’s a well-known fact, little girl.”

“I did understand right, after all, then? But what can be the matter
with Daddy Joe’s?”

Mr. Green looked more perplexed. “I don’t yet quite understand you,
Chee. Suppose you begin at the beginning, and tell me all about it.”

So Chee commenced, growing more and more interested in her own story as
she went on, for were not the minister’s eyes smiling into hers as if
to say, “You came to the very right person, little Chee--the very right
person.”

“Then I promised Our Father faithfully,” she continued, telling of the
night before when she had resolved to consult the minister, “that if
He’d do that for me I’d do something for Him. And I will, honest, for
He did hear me,” she concluded by saying, in a hushed, reverent voice.

Her listener happened to be searching about for his handkerchief just
then. The disturbance in the hay caused the dust to fly. This brought
moisture to his eyes. Chee gravely offered her small square of linen.

When she had finished telling all about her Daddy Joe’s fiddle, he
said, gaily, “I am not much of a musician, but long ago when I was in
college I owned a violin. It must be in the house somewhere, now. I’ll
hunt it up, and tell you what little I know about it.”

Chee’s eyes shone more brightly. Catching hold of her new friend’s
sleeve,--he had risen to go down the ladder,--she said, her voice deep
with emotion, “I wish I could thank you more than tongue can tell.” It
was not a very elaborate thank you, but the glow in her eyes made up
any loss of words.

“I never before saw a child so thoroughly in earnest,” he mused.
“She must possess an exceedingly passionate nature, or else be
extraordinarily fond of music.”

“Oh, dear! Aunt Mean’ll miss me. It’s getting so late, and she won’t
let me come again in a long, long time.” But even as she spoke in a
troubled way, a smile broke over her face. “He fixed it before,” she
said, reverently, “I’ll ask Him again.”

The minister understood, and many a day, when his burdens were heavy,
he recalled the faith of a little half-Indian child.




CHAPTER V.


It was Sunday. The morning sermon was ended, and the choir-leader had
played the “walkout,” as Chee termed the postlude.

The choir-leader was a very interesting person. He not only led the
singing and played the organ at church, but could whistle. And such
whistling! Not the every-day wood-pile sort, but the kind that made
every boy in town his friend.

He was tall, had a sallow, haggard face and hollow eyes. His spare
locks almost touched his shoulders, and appeared to be faded. One knew
at a second glance, however, they had never been brighter.

This eccentric-looking gentleman had hardly slipped from off the long
bench before the organ, ere the minister had found Aunt Mean and was
saying, “Will you kindly do Mrs. Green and myself a favor?”

“You know very well, Elder, any living thing on our farm is at your
disposal. If I’ve said it once, I have said it a hundred times!”

“Well, it is something from your farm, to be sure. We want your little
niece for a day--say Wednesday, if it is pleasant.”

“Chee?” she exclaimed, with surprise. “For mercy’s sake, what do you
want o’ her?”

“You know how fond of children we are--both of us. We want her to enjoy
her. Surely, you can spare the child for a single day.”

“It ain’t the sparin’ on her.” But catching sight of Chee’s pleading
eyes, she added, “I don’t want no niece o’ mine botherin’ round and
makin’ Mrs. Green a heap o’ work.”

“No, indeed, Chee would be a real help. You know, Miss Whittaker, a
home without a child is often a lonely place.”

“Some folks ain’t had much chance to find out, lately,” and Aunt Mean
went off with her favorite “Humph.”

For awhile after that eventful visit, matters went more smoothly for
Chee.

She was taught how to tighten the strings of her violin until they
formed chords, and how to play scales upon them. Her eyes opened wide
with astonishment.

“To think the dear old fiddle hasn’t been to blame, after all!” she
joyfully cried. “Just me!”

It was a great revelation to her to find the strings had always to be
brought up to a certain pitch. “Why, no wonder Daddy Joe’s couldn’t
play if they have to be pulled up every time,” she exclaimed, then
added, plaintively, “It’s years and years since Daddy’s pulled up his.”

“Of course it’s no wonder,” laughed her teacher, fingering the
companion of his boyhood days. “Even the strings on this are yellow
from lying in a paper so long. What must your father’s be like?
It’s a great marvel that they have not snapped before this. No, no,
little one, don’t condemn the instrument, but keep right on trying to
understand it.”

Chee, with a light heart, bade the minister and his wife good-by. She
had begun to learn how to make music. And were not a whole package of
violin-strings in her pocket?

After this it became more natural for the pastor to say Sundays, “May
we have Chee to-morrow, Miss Whittaker?” Or, “Mrs. Green wishes me to
engage your little niece for Thursday,” and Aunt Mean seldom refused.

Chee never quite understood why permission was so readily given.
Secretly she puzzled over it, but was far too grateful to ask questions.

The truth of the matter is this--it flattered Aunt Mean to have
the minister intimate with her little relative. Moreover, she had
an indescribable notion that by allowing her niece to frequent the
parsonage, she might in some way counterbalance the child’s heathendom.
“It’s no use for you to tell me different, Reuben,” she would argue.
“Her mother was a heathen, or Injun” (the two were synonymous in Aunt
Mean’s mind), “and do what we can, the girl will allers be half a
savage.”

So Chee--in spite of her aunt’s arguing, decidedly a whole person--was
allowed to spend one or two days of every week with her friends.

From chords and scales, she learned to pick out simple tunes, those she
heard at church being her chief source of selection. After awhile she
learned to play little melodies of her own composing. “Wind and bird
songs,” she called them.

The clergyman gave her all the rules for violin-playing he knew, and
his wife taught her to read music.

They were happy times for Chee,--Mrs. Green at the piano, playing old,
familiar hymns, Chee picking out the notes on the minister’s violin.

One day she said, “Some way, Mr. Green, I can’t love your fiddle
like I do Daddy’s.” Then fearing she might hurt her good friend’s
feelings, she hastened to add, “It’s very much shinier, and of course
it’s a fiddle.” Mrs. Green used to wonder if “fiddle” wasn’t the most
beautiful word in all the world to Chee.

Three years passed without much change except Chee’s gradual
improvement and increasing delight in her music.

In Aunt Mean’s best parlor, a hymn-book lay in prim stateliness beside
the family Bible. It was a coveted treasure to Chee. But the principle
of strict honesty was a part of her very soul, in spite of her
“heathen” mother, and the Bible was never left alone to gather dust.

Much to her displeasure, she was “broke in.” But in time she took her
household duties as a matter of course, and things went on much in the
same old way.




CHAPTER VI.


Once Chee suffered a great scare. The whole secret of her violin
threatened to come out.

Neighbor Flannigan often stayed with his cronies at the “Corners” a
little too long for his own good. One night, being even less himself
than usual, he stumbled into the Whittaker place instead of his own.
Too stupid to reach the house, he threw himself down on the grass.

As the effect of his evening’s carousing began to wear off, he was
startled by the sound of strange music. Seemingly it came from the
Whittaker attic.

For awhile he was charmed. What could it be? More and more the
mystery of it impressed him. At last frightened by his own ignorant
conjectures, he became certain the old house was haunted, and as fast
as his shaky legs could carry him he started home on a run.

The following morning he felt it his duty to confide in Uncle Reuben.
“I was jest that tired from me day’s woruk I had to rest me legs
a spell,--you know how it is yourself, Mr. Whittaker,--when thim
unairthly sounds blowed up softly loike, roight out of the chimbly.”

“What in the world could the fellow have heard?” asked Uncle Reuben at
breakfast.

“Heard? Why, the whiskey rattling his brain,” replied Aunt Mean. “Don’t
look so frightened, Chee. It’s wicked to believe in ghosts, and I don’t
want you to get no sech notions in your head.” Perhaps Aunt Mean was
giving orders to herself as well as to her niece.

That night Chee scarcely dared play, and it was many a day before
her old confidence returned. The full, round tones she loved were
stealthily smothered. Fortunately, the house was well back from the
road. No neighboring farms were within hearing distance, so her scare
was finally forgotten. However, something else happened which caused
Chee to leave Daddy Joe’s fiddle in silence a long time. It was Cousin
Gertrude’s coming to the farm.

Chee wore her pink gingham the day she came, and even Aunt Mean was
dressed up in a white apron.

“She’s the gayest thing, with dancin’ blue eyes, and yellow hair and
pink cheeks, ’stead of brown ’uns,” with unnecessary emphasis on the
“brown.”

Tears stole down the “brown” ones at this remark by Aunt Mean, who was
tightly tying Chee’s braids with bits of shoe-strings. (It was a grief
to Chee that Aunt Mean should not allow her to braid her own hair.)

“Our Father made my face brown,” she kept thinking. “He wanted it so.”
Yet something seemed to have dulled the brightness of the morning.

“I ’spect she’ll call me Ugly Nut, too, like Aunt Mean used to,”
mourned Chee. She had never attended school, and though her secluded
life made her an old child in some ways, it kept her wonderfully
baby-like in others. Indeed, it is doubtful if years of learning
or contact with wise people could ever take away her simple,
questioning-like manner. It might always be “Chee’s way.”

Soon the carriage wheels were heard on the gravel drive, and sad
thoughts were quickly put away in the excitement of Cousin Gertrude’s
arrival.

Yes, she was, as Aunt Mean had said, a “gay thing.” At least, so it
seemed as she flew about the house, visiting old nooks and corners, or
out calling the chickens and feeding Fanny and the colt.

It was all very startling to Chee,--her lively movements, her merry
repartee, and her show of affection. It seemed so natural for Cousin
Gertrude to lean her fair head against Uncle Reuben’s shoulder. Chee
would have felt extremely strange in such an act, even if she were tall
enough to reach it. And as for laughing right up into Aunt Mean’s face,
as though sharp words were only a joke between them, it would have been
impossible for Chee to have tried it.

In the afternoon, when she found her pretty cousin sitting idle in the
little grove behind the house, there was a change.

The lips that had all day been parted in laughter were drooping. Her
blue eyes were watching the hill-tops as though they saw something very
sad over there. At sight of Chee they brightened a little.

“Come here, you tiny witch,” she called, making room in the hammock.
“Do you know you make me think of a poem I read once called ‘The
Nut-Brown Maiden.’”

Chee’s eyes were shyly raised. “Nut-Brown Maiden is ever so pretty,”
she said. “Aunt Mean used to call me ‘Ugly Nut,’ but my daddy was here
then and he stopped her. Now she calls me ‘Chee.’”

“How odd! I like it, though. Is it an Indian name?” It seemed to the
little girl her cousin must love Indian names, she spoke so tenderly.
How good it was not to feel in disgrace!

“My real name is Opechee. They call me Chee, for short. Aunt Mean says
‘it doesn’t holler so loud of Indian wigwams.’”

“‘Holler of wigwams,’” echoed Gertrude. “You poor, darling child.”

“But I don’t mind so much, for I know what it means,” murmured Chee, as
she smiled up into the deep blue sky. “A song-bird--I’d rather be that
than anything else.” Then turning with something of Cousin Gertrude’s
own impulsiveness, she asked, “Oh, isn’t it lovely? You can’t know how
glad I am it’s my name.”

No, the girl could not understand Chee’s strange, almost unreasonable
pleasure, but to see the little one so happy could but lighten her own
heart.

Many a long talk had they together in that little grove, and during
their rambles over the farm. At times Chee would be tempted to unburden
her heart of its secret, but, young as she was, she knew Cousin
Gertrude had a secret, too; for often when they were talking of the
happiest things, the sparkle would die out of the big blue eyes that
Chee so lovingly watched.

“Cousin Gertrude has forgotten all about her Nut-Brown Maiden,” she
would think. “She doesn’t tell me her secret, and I won’t tell her
mine.”

And yet before autumn both secrets came out.




CHAPTER VII.


One night Chee was feeling very lonely for Daddy Joe’s fiddle--more
lonely than any night since Cousin Gertrude had been at the farm. It
seemed years since she had fingered its dear old strings. She had been
very much discouraged that last time. Knowing so well the tones she
longed to hear, though she had done her best, she was dissatisfied.
Even now she could feel the thrill that entered her soul at the
concert, three long years ago.

“If I could only play that way how happy I’d be. I wouldn’t care any
more about Aunt Mean, nor my face, nor feel the aching so for Daddy
Joe, nor anything.”

Chee was troubled with these mournful thoughts when she suddenly became
conscious that some one near was crying--very softly, but surely crying.

There was an opening which had been cut through for a register from
Chee’s room to the “best room” below.

“It must be Cousin Gertrude, and something awful must be the matter to
make anybody big cry almost out loud.”

She could not endure it long, just to lie still and listen. Creeping
down the front stairs, she noiselessly entered the best bedroom, and
slipped her hand into Gertrude’s.

“Why, Childie, how came you here?” The young lady tried to speak as
though tears were not even then rolling down her cheeks.

“To comfort you,” was the simple explanation.

For a moment, big blue eyes looked yearningly into little black ones,
then dropped, and tears stole from under quivering lashes.

Chee crept closer. “Wouldn’t it help you to tell me about your secret?”
she asked, sobbingly.

Cousin Gertrude took the little girl in her arms. Sitting on the bed
she rocked her gently back and forth, as though to quiet the would-be
comforter herself.

“It was because I was angry. I know it. I am all to blame. Who had a
better right to tell me of my faults? But I had been abroad and he
hadn’t, and he made me so indignant. I’ve such an awful temper, Birdie,
you must never let yours run away with you.”

Chee was frightened at her cousin’s sudden outburst of confidence, but,
with characteristic intuitiveness, she said nothing.

“I forgot that his feelings were just as hard to manage, and I threw it
down and declared I would never touch it again as long as I lived. And
then he said he would never speak to me again until I had taken back my
words.

“Then the carriage came--oh, why didn’t it wait a little longer? I
would surely have come to my senses in another minute. But I left
him and came here. Yet Birdie, Birdie, wouldn’t I touch it now if I
could--if it wasn’t at home and he far, far away!

“Oh, why did I lose my temper? How could I? They always said we were
both too hot-headed to get on together. And now all is lost forever,
he’s gone--he won’t come back. Oh, I can never, never forget this
night.”

[Illustration: “‘SHALL I ASK OUR FATHER?’”]

The girl ceased her wild, mournful speaking and buried her face in
her pillow. Uncontrolled sobs shook her form.